Caption: cool all right let's get started and
Caption: I'll have to be a little bit faster I
Caption: think
Caption: um so my name's David Martin and I'm
Caption: talking about the use of deep fakes in
Caption: social media and my journey of um in
Caption: that space the last sort of nine to 12
Caption: months
Caption: so onward so first off thanks to the
Caption: triple D conference people making it
Caption: possible it's my second year it's an
Caption: awesome experience please apply to talk
Caption: there's great subjects and I'm always
Caption: interested to read more and see more so
Caption: I'm sure everyone else is too so yeah
Caption: please apply if you get the chance and
Caption: big thanks to the guys looking after
Caption: coffee cart I'll be there later on
Caption: cool
Caption: I of course need no introduction but I
Caption: have the pleasure of introducing David
Caption: Martin he is Chief technology officer at
Caption: grapha a fintech startup here in Perth
Caption: before joining grapha he was the
Caption: technical lead for the covid-19 response
Caption: for the Western Australian Department of
Caption: Health
Caption: he also teaches machine learning and
Caption: data analytics at the University of
Caption: Western Australia between you and me
Caption: he's been naughty this year and is not
Caption: getting anything from me enjoy the talk
Caption: I hope you come away inspired
Caption: stay safe
Caption: thank you Santa Claus so how many of you
Caption: know what a deep fake is I think you
Caption: know what a deep fake is yeah I heard
Caption: the time yeah cool hopefully I'll
Caption: challenge that um understanding later
Caption: today or the next few minutes
Caption: so how do they get here so last year I
Caption: know those of you who saw me talk or see
Caption: me Babylon LinkedIn I was playing with
Caption: machine learning operations or Emma lops
Caption: last year and I was looking for
Caption: um ways of automating
Caption: um looking for trading strategies on the
Caption: ASX so I'm a big fintech fan and love
Caption: finance and luckily on programmers so I
Caption: got to mix the two and look at trading
Caption: models and one of the things I learned
Caption: from that was trying to capture
Caption: sentiment how does how do people feel
Caption: about a company even if a company puts
Caption: out positive information is the stock
Caption: price going to go up because people
Caption: trust the company so what's the
Caption: sentiment towards it and trying to
Caption: capture that in a data sense it's
Caption: actually incredibly difficult I can't
Caption: really put a survey out so how do you
Caption: how do you capture it and further to
Caption: that is
Caption: um I was like inventing new things and
Caption: launching new ideas and so in the
Caption: finance space I was I started something
Caption: called Blue Harvest but I need to Market
Caption: it I know nothing about marketing I'm a
Caption: programmer luckily I have friends who
Caption: are marketers you've got to explain you
Caption: know look at this look at that so I
Caption: actually got to learn but I'm time poor
Caption: so I need to automate it how do I Market
Caption: automate my marketing right it's a dream
Caption: next thing is in the startup world I've
Caption: got no money right so free or cheap
Caption: if I can do that too even better
Caption: and the third component is video content
Caption: it's got to be video content if you look
Caption: at Tick Tock it's exploding you know
Caption: people writing texts stories posts
Caption: whatever it doesn't seem to be as
Caption: popular anymore as video content so need
Caption: to automate it needs to be free I need
Caption: to make videos so pretty tall order but
Caption: that's that's the challenge I set myself
Caption: because at the end of the day if I'm
Caption: launching something I need I need
Caption: marketing otherwise you go nowhere right
Caption: business fails no matter how good it is
Caption: so today I want to discuss is um just a
Caption: quick one through social media Concepts
Caption: and numbers just some terms
Caption: um that you've probably heard in social
Caption: media just explain a bit more and then
Caption: some numbers around it so you can get an
Caption: appreciation of how that works in the
Caption: social media space and what they mean
Caption: next thing is data Baseline so let's
Caption: capture some data from let's call it my
Caption: visibility in social media or of this um
Caption: this blue harvesting I'd written and how
Caption: you know measure that as a starting
Caption: point and do I succeed do I get more
Caption: free marketing
Caption: and the next piece is deep fakes so
Caption: that's the idea of using that video
Caption: content you know synthetic media is
Caption: another term and I'll get into that
Caption: later but deep fakes how do we use these
Caption: videos how can we automate video um
Caption: production
Caption: and the net result did it work did it
Caption: just tank and did I waste my money in my
Caption: time
Caption: so let's get going
Caption: so first off social media people know
Caption: what impressions are yeah someone looked
Caption: at your cat video that's an impression
Caption: right picture of your kid that's an
Caption: impression engagement
Caption: yeah that's when someone pressed like
Caption: repost retweet
Caption: um I can't think of another nerd but you
Caption: know those things they've interacted
Caption: with your with your social media content
Caption: whatever that may be
Caption: followers yeah he influences bang on
Caption: about followers so and Donald Trump will
Caption: tell you with 90 million of them I used
Caption: to have
Caption: um when you put out a piece of content
Caption: immediately all your followers get to
Caption: see it that's the first group of people
Caption: that see it then after you after they
Caption: like retweet whatever then out it goes
Caption: so really followers help you project
Caption: your posts so really increasing
Caption: followers and some people play for them
Caption: is very important so that's another
Caption: number to consider
Caption: and the last thing I wanted to um
Caption: explain there is organic versus paid so
Caption: organic is you taking a picture of your
Caption: cat and sticking it on wherever it was
Caption: Instagram whereas paid some people pay
Caption: content writers advertising um the
Caption: company I now work for actually does
Caption: that sort of stuff makes social media
Caption: posts for companies
Caption: um so there's a whole Market in that
Caption: space and can be quite expensive even
Caption: Simple Text posts with photos take money
Caption: and time
Caption: so engagement rates which you heard me
Caption: just discuss previously so just to keep
Caption: the math simple Twitter's a one percent
Caption: that's considered a good engagement rate
Caption: oh sorry my slides are now out of it
Caption: that's a good engagement rate so what
Caption: that means is if you had 100 people see
Caption: your your cat tweet and one person hit
Caption: like or retweet or whatever that's good
Caption: right that's considered a good number I
Caption: know sounds crappy but it's good and you
Caption: can see along there there's LinkedIn at
Caption: six and so on so forth so just to keep
Caption: the maths easy one person a hundred is
Caption: considered success on Twitter
Caption: so next piece is how much are people
Caption: spending on marketing
Caption: so Twitter 1.4 billion dollars in
Caption: advertising
Caption: um profit last calendar year us
Caption: Facebook at 50 billion and number number
Caption: one is Google 200 billion dollars in
Caption: advertising so it's a fair whack of
Caption: money and if I can avoid giving them any
Caption: more I um certainly will try
Caption: so video content so what are some stats
Caption: around video content what what makes us
Caption: so popular
Caption: so the first thing is 78 of people watch
Caption: online videos every week and that's in
Caption: some form whether it's you know autoplay
Caption: on Twitter or Tick Tock whatever
Caption: um it's it's incredibly popular
Caption: the next two thing uh next stat is 72 of
Caption: customers rather learn this way so let's
Caption: think of my dad building his lawn Murray
Caption: just bought the other week we found a
Caption: video online on how to build it because
Caption: reading a manual sucks whereas if
Caption: someone shows you how to do it you can
Caption: always learn faster and acquire the
Caption: skills or knowledge faster
Caption: the next one is message retention more
Caption: people remember the message you put in a
Caption: video than a piece of text
Caption: and finally more businesses are doing it
Caption: it's going up every year and probably
Caption: it's a it's a self-fulfilling thing you
Caption: see Tick Tock being popular so people
Caption: trying to get on Tick Tock causes more
Caption: videos more businesses to get on there
Caption: and on it goes so really if you're going
Caption: to advertise for your business having a
Caption: video even casual videos you've just
Caption: shown on your iPhone is a really good
Caption: idea it really does help
Caption: and the one that blows me away is the
Caption: cost a professional one minute of
Caption: finished video is between one and ten
Caption: thousand dollars and I got that from a
Caption: friend of mine in the US that's the cost
Caption: who's got that kind of money around for
Caption: one minute you want to put lots of
Caption: videos out every month because you want
Caption: to you know stay relevant so an insane
Caption: cost and those startup can keep up with
Caption: that so anything you can do to get it
Caption: free and cheap
Caption: um the better
Caption: so for me in my journey what I did was I
Caption: had to get some data you know get the
Caption: data is is one of my favorite sayings so
Caption: what I'm showing you here this is a
Caption: tweet from one of my Twitter accounts
Caption: it's completely automated
Caption: now just to explain Market sensitive
Caption: announcements are announcements that
Caption: companies put out on the stock exchange
Caption: hence the ASX that are sensitive that
Caption: would move the share price and all my
Caption: little piece of code does is every time
Caption: one of those announcements are published
Caption: by the ASX and behalf of company I tweet
Caption: it you can see it there so it gives you
Caption: the name of the company gives you the
Caption: name of the you know the title of the
Caption: announcement time stamp and a couple
Caption: hashtags so I won't go into hashtags but
Caption: I do want to call out is the m s
Caption: now what that is in the trading space is
Caption: those of you who are um what they call
Caption: Fin twits or Finance people who are on
Caption: Twitter these dollar signs are the same
Caption: as a hashtag but in the finance world we
Caption: use that to I'm going to look at BHP or
Caption: CV you can do your sales you've got a
Caption: Twitter account and what you'll see is
Caption: all the tweets that's how we tag
Caption: companies and it's done all over the
Caption: world what occurred to me was I could
Caption: now look at
Caption: um let's call it popularity or um yeah
Caption: popularity of a particular company in
Caption: this case m s I know what the hell they
Caption: do but I can type that into Twitter and
Caption: I'll see all the tweets about them so
Caption: what occurred to me was I've been doing
Caption: this about 12 18 months was I could
Caption: download all this data and see how
Caption: frequently is m s discussed how
Caption: frequently is it engaged with because
Caption: what it does is when I'm trying to make
Caption: video content which is expensive is I
Caption: can now Target my video content towards
Caption: the more popular ASX companies
Caption: so I use the Twitter API download all
Caption: the stats from my Twitter account let's
Caption: cover how long it took I'm sorry so just
Caption: to point out as well I apologize you can
Caption: see on the bottom the five the one and
Caption: the 26 it's a bit faded out that's the
Caption: engagement so you've got 26 likes a
Caption: retweet and five comments whatever they
Caption: are
Caption: so that's the stats that's engaging
Caption: we're downloading um for every tweet
Caption: so this is from SQL Server it's a little
Caption: bit rough I apologize
Caption: um you can see on the top I've got the
Caption: asex codes down the left and then I've
Caption: got engagement percentage and then you
Caption: can see Impressions and those you know
Caption: other Concepts I talked about so you can
Caption: see uh because I wrote the tweets I can
Caption: get the A6 code out so I can tell you
Caption: what's popular so TCL don't know what
Caption: they do
Caption: eight percent engagement
Caption: we're off one tweet so what that says to
Caption: me is you've got engaged shareholders
Caption: I'm not going to get into that whole
Caption: site I think it's a whole other
Caption: experiment
Caption: but the point is that you can see
Caption: there's a high level of Engagement with
Caption: certain stocks and I've just grabbed the
Caption: top dozen there just to show you
Caption: basement engagement percentage of eight
Caption: percent which is you know eight times
Caption: better than what they say the good rate
Caption: is so fantastic
Caption: but also we can look at Impressions if
Caption: you look at m s one we just showed the
Caption: 24 4700 uh Impressions views 4 700
Caption: people saw it all the three tweets
Caption: but a low engagement rate so really
Caption: depends on marketing do you want people
Caption: engaging the content or do you want
Caption: people seeing you so that's the
Caption: difference between brand awareness and
Caption: you're trying to get them to buy your
Caption: stuff
Caption: so if we flip that on its header there
Caption: you go so TCL is it eight percent and m
Caption: s was one I just showed
Caption: so what if we flip it what if we just
Caption: look at Impressions look at the very top
Caption: ASN six and a half thousand impressions
Caption: for the same time period so straight
Caption: away using this list and I think I think
Caption: Ms came in number three here
Caption: oh apologies my slides are out of sync
Caption: because they're on my other laptop so so
Caption: what I'll show you here is you can see
Caption: those High numbers of Impressions and
Caption: the top
Caption: um 20 down to Agy there which is one of
Caption: the stocks I decided to focus on them
Caption: so what I decided was is there's plenty
Caption: of news stories written about these
Caption: stocks if you're on Twitter or LinkedIn
Caption: or whatever is I'm going to write video
Caption: content about those news stories so
Caption: basically getting a free ride off
Caption: someone else's content
Caption: so what I did was I thought well I'll
Caption: focus on that top 20 because then I can
Caption: focus you know my spend my effort on
Caption: those and that's the only tweets I send
Caption: out so you really want to keep the um
Caption: you really want to keep the volume down
Caption: So based on that sorry let's keep going
Caption: through
Caption: um I started looking at video content
Caption: and now we'll talk about deep fakes
Caption: hi I'm Santa Claus this is the real me
Caption: hi I'm Santa Claus's digital twin the
Caption: difference between a deep fake and a
Caption: digital twin is that a digital twin is
Caption: made with consent of the person whereas
Caption: a deep fake is done without consent
Caption: so thank you Santa post for that
Caption: explanation and that's the bit I wanted
Caption: to bring up so deep fakes I think is the
Caption: pejorative or the you know the negative
Caption: term digital twins are done with consent
Caption: that's very important in all this this
Caption: guy's an actor my kids are in the room
Caption: this guy's an actor okay so we have to
Caption: be respectful towards the actors in this
Caption: they are paid okay they're paid to use
Caption: their likeness so there's very strict
Caption: rules or ethics around what you do it
Caption: can't be political can't be religious
Caption: you know no harassment no bullying this
Caption: is very important this and a lot of the
Caption: platforms I assume all the platforms
Caption: police that there's a lot of content
Caption: moderation intentionally because what
Caption: you're doing is you're getting Santa
Caption: Claus or somebody else to say something
Caption: and they wouldn't even know it's been
Caption: done so it's a very important in all
Caption: this and that's where the difference
Caption: between a deep fake and digital twin so
Caption: there's I think the most commonly ripped
Caption: off guys um Tom Cruise he's an actor
Caption: plenty of footage
Caption: so
Caption: um yeah most common group stuff but
Caption: that's the big difference here is we use
Caption: digital twins which most people know as
Caption: deep fakes but that's that's a very
Caption: important difference there
Caption: so what platform's out there's plenty of
Caption: them and they're changing all the time
Caption: now the cool one I want to call out here
Caption: is one dollar per Finnish minute
Caption: that's a big difference from that one
Caption: grand you'd have to hand over now
Caption: obviously it's a bot so it's not perfect
Caption: right that you know that technology is
Caption: still evolving but I've given you three
Caption: examples there
Caption: um our one that's an Israeli company
Caption: there's plenty more and that's where
Caption: synthetic media comes and if you Google
Caption: that and have a look around just there's
Caption: plenty of stuff ideally if you're going
Caption: to automate your own API
Caption: um clearly otherwise you're doing manual
Caption: ones all day long
Caption: um I will share the slides at the end if
Caption: you guys want to have a look so um you
Caption: get all the reference points what I've
Caption: chucked on the right there very quickly
Caption: is a sample of what I've been doing yeah
Caption: so at the tops the video I'll just run
Caption: that in a second and you can see the
Caption: Tweet attached to it and you can see
Caption: importantly this company is sayana
Caption: another company I put the dollar sign
Caption: sya that means anyone who's following
Caption: that stock on Twitter will see my video
Caption: okay
Caption: um Justin from Motley Fool sorry why is
Caption: the sayona share price lifting on Monday
Caption: published the 5th of September
Caption: visit Blue Harvest digital to get the
Caption: latest news and Market information
Caption: fairly simple straightforward easy to do
Caption: did that through an API so as I'm
Caption: standing here with you as I love to tell
Caption: people that thing's probably making
Caption: videos so it is possible and these kinds
Caption: of things do it at a very low price
Caption: so that was all very interesting David
Caption: but what were the results
Caption: was it worth it
Caption: stepping into the whole 20-minute talk
Caption: with a video but I changed your mind so
Caption: I put a few in so this is another one
Caption: called Sophia the other guy was called
Caption: Paul they're all actors so back to a
Caption: friend by name is kind of cool
Caption: um anyway some stats so did it work was
Caption: I wasting my time I always believed
Caption: learning something new is not a waste of
Caption: time but nonetheless
Caption: so tweet only text point six three
Caption: percent well below the one percent that
Caption: they say is good video tweets 3.99 and
Caption: that's just those top 20 companies now
Caption: the thing is that constantly changes as
Caption: engagement changes for those stocks the
Caption: top 20 is dynamic it'll pick whatever's
Caption: in the list so I couldn't tell you what
Caption: this is right now well a screenshot the
Caption: other day but nonetheless it changes all
Caption: the time based on traffic which is great
Caption: so that is 6.5 times better and I'm
Caption: producing about 60 Minutes of video a
Caption: month so that's 60 bucks give or take um
Caption: completely automated
Caption: so that's that was the um
Caption: the big one for me there um and I didn't
Caption: know that till I did the chart so I was
Caption: quite impressed
Caption: um the next one very quickly is LinkedIn
Caption: so LinkedIn I publish content too and
Caption: I'll just show you the competitors these
Caption: are financial news companies in
Caption: Australia publishing ASX content you can
Caption: see me sorry it's called border Herald
Caption: this time but that's me there I've just
Caption: named everyone else to protect the
Caption: innocent but you can see the followers
Caption: you know 1100 compared to 16 000 of the
Caption: top so massive difference
Caption: but the cool thing is with automated
Caption: content I'm a number two on engagement
Caption: so I am beating
Caption: um that and that top company 150 million
Caption: ASX company with three full-time staff
Caption: so it is you know you can get you can
Caption: get in the fight with marketing with
Caption: this sort of stuff and that's the last
Caption: six months
Caption: and finally
Caption: um some people saw the weird I do
Caption: on the internet and they um said come be
Caption: a CTO at a fintech so it's been
Caption: absolutely awesome so I hung up my time
Caption: at Health after 20 odd years and came to
Caption: work for them and I've been there about
Caption: six months
Caption: um yeah that's that that's me in the
Caption: back row somewhere but that's that's the
Caption: tool sorry for the AV malfunction um
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: there's four minutes left we're over so
Caption: if you want to mug me outside and ask
Caption: questions you're welcome to or Twitter
Caption: or something
Caption: that's right